.\" Man page for llama-gguf-download
.\" Copyright (c) 2026 Lexmata LLC
.TH LLAMA-GGUF-DOWNLOAD 1 "February 2026" "llama-gguf 0.5.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
llama-gguf-download \- download a model from HuggingFace Hub
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B llama-gguf download
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
\fIREPO\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Download GGUF model files from HuggingFace Hub. If no specific file is
specified, lists all available GGUF files in the repository.
.PP
Requires the \fBhuggingface\fR feature to be compiled in.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I REPO
HuggingFace repository identifier. Format: \fBowner/repo-name\fR.
Example: \fBQwen/Qwen2.5-0.5B-Instruct-GGUF\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-file " " \fIFILENAME\fR
Specific file to download from the repository. If not specified, lists
all available GGUF files.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIDIR\fR
Download directory. If not specified, uses the system cache directory
(typically \fI~/.cache/llama-gguf/\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-force
Force re-download even if the file already exists in the cache.
.SH EXAMPLES
List available GGUF files in a repository:
.PP
.RS
.B llama-gguf download Qwen/Qwen2.5-0.5B-Instruct-GGUF
.RE
.PP
Download a specific quantized model:
.PP
.RS
.B llama-gguf download Qwen/Qwen2.5-0.5B-Instruct-GGUF -f qwen2.5-0.5b-instruct-q4_k_m.gguf
.RE
.PP
Download to a custom directory:
.PP
.RS
.B llama-gguf download TheBloke/Mistral-7B-v0.1-GGUF -f mistral-7b-v0.1.Q4_K_M.gguf -o ./models
.RE
.PP
Force re-download:
.PP
.RS
.B llama-gguf download Qwen/Qwen2.5-0.5B-Instruct-GGUF -f model.gguf --force
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.cache/llama-gguf/
Default model cache directory. Downloaded models are organized by
repository name.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR llama-gguf (1),
.BR llama-gguf-models (1),
.BR llama-gguf-run (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Lexmata LLC <jquinn@lexmata.ai>
