.\" Man page for llama-gguf-models
.\" Copyright (c) 2026 Lexmata LLC
.TH LLAMA-GGUF-MODELS 1 "February 2026" "llama-gguf 0.5.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
llama-gguf-models \- manage local model cache
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B llama-gguf models
\fIACTION\fR
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Manage the local cache of downloaded GGUF models. Provides commands to
list cached models, search HuggingFace Hub, view cache information, and
clear the cache.
.PP
Requires the \fBhuggingface\fR feature to be compiled in.
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.BR list
List all locally cached models with their file paths and sizes.
.TP
.BR search " " \fIQUERY\fR
Search for models on HuggingFace Hub.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-limit " " \fIN\fR
Maximum number of search results. Default: 10.
.RE
.TP
.BR cache-info
Show information about the model cache, including directory location,
total size, and number of cached models.
.TP
.BR clear-cache
Clear the model cache, removing all downloaded models.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Skip confirmation prompt.
.RE
.TP
.BR list-files " " \fIREPO\fR
List GGUF files available in a HuggingFace repository.
.SH EXAMPLES
List cached models:
.PP
.RS
.B llama-gguf models list
.RE
.PP
Search HuggingFace for GGUF models:
.PP
.RS
.B llama-gguf models search "llama 7b gguf"
.RE
.PP
Show cache information:
.PP
.RS
.B llama-gguf models cache-info
.RE
.PP
Clear cache with confirmation:
.PP
.RS
.B llama-gguf models clear-cache
.RE
.PP
Clear cache without confirmation:
.PP
.RS
.B llama-gguf models clear-cache -y
.RE
.PP
List files in a repository:
.PP
.RS
.B llama-gguf models list-files Qwen/Qwen2.5-0.5B-Instruct-GGUF
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.cache/llama-gguf/
Default model cache directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR llama-gguf (1),
.BR llama-gguf-download (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Lexmata LLC <jquinn@lexmata.ai>
